Minimal viable Play module (#549)
lihaoyi/mill: docs/pages/9 - Contrib Modules.md

### Play Framework

> This module adds basic Play framework support to mill: 

Reviewer: I think the correct capitalization is "Play Framework"

- configures mill for Play Framework default directory layout,
- integrates the Play framework routes compiler,
- optionally: integrates the Twirl template engine,

> - optionally: configure mill for single module play applications.

Reviewer: configures

There is no specific Play Java support, building a Play Java application will require a bit 
of customization (mostly adding the proper dependencies).  

#### Using the plugin

There are 2 base modules and 2 helper traits in this plugin, all of which can be found
 in `mill.playlib`.

The base modules:  

> - `PlayModule` applies the default Play configuration(layout, dependencies, routes compilation, 

Reviewer: missing space before the parenthesis

> twirl compilation and akka http server)

Reviewer: We should probably capitalize the project names: Twirl compilation and Akka HTTP server

```

In order to have a working `start` command the following runtime dependency is also added: 
```
    ivy"com.typesafe.play::play-akka-http-server:${playVersion()}"
```
#### Using `PlayApiModule`

The `PlayApiModule` trait behaves the same as the `PlayModule` trait but it won't process .scala
.html files and you don't need to define the twirlVersion:

```scala
// build.sc
import mill._
// You have to replace VERSION
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::mill-contrib-playlib:VERSION`,  mill.playlib._

object core extends PlayApiModule {
    //config
    override def scalaVersion= T{"2.12.8"}
    override def playVersion= T{"2.7.0"}   
    
    object test extends PlayTests
}  
``` 

#### Play configuration options

The play modules themselves don't have specific configuration options at this point but the [router 
module configuration options](#router-configuration-options) and the [Twirl module configuration 
options](#twirl-configuration-options) are applicable. 

#### Commands equivalence

Mill commands are targets on a named build. For example if your build is called `core`:
- compile: `core.compile`
- run: not implemented. It can be emulated with `mill -w runBackground` but this 

> doesn't do any kind of classloading optimization and may be slower thanPlay's usual `run`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
doesn't do any kind of classloading optimization and may be slower than Play's usual `run`. 
```

- start: `core.start` or `core.run`
- test: `core.test`
- dist: not implemented, however you can use the equivalent `core.assembly` 
command to get a runnable fat jar of the project. The packaging is slightly different though.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think you need to be clear there that the server is running in PROD mode and not in DEV. Obvious in hindsight maybe but not when you are trying to get everything working from scratch.

Author: Hopefully my new wording is clearer :)

#### Using `SingleModule`

The `SingleModule` trait allows you to have the build descriptor at the same level as the source
 code on the filesystem. You can move from there to a multi-module build either by refactoring 
 your directory layout into multiple subdirectories or by using mill's nested modules feature.

Looking back at the sample build definition in [Using PlayModule](#using-playmodule):
```scala
// build.sc
import mill._
// You have to replace VERSION
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::mill-contrib-playlib:VERSION`,  mill.playlib._

object core extends PlayModule {
    //config
    override def scalaVersion= T{"2.12.8"}
    override def playVersion= T{"2.7.0"}
    override def twirlVersion= T{"1.4.0"}
    
    object test extends PlayTests
}  
``` 
The directory layout was:
```text
.
├── build.sc
└── core
    ├── app
    │   ├── controllers
    │   └── views
    ├── conf

>     ├── logs

Reviewer 3: Maybe put the `routes` file in here so that it is obvious that it still belongs here and is picked up and handled automatically

Author: I filtered the tree to only keep the directories but I guess I can be a bit more detailed for the conf part.

- `RouterModule` allows you to use the Play router without the rest of the configuration (see 
[Using the router module directly](#using-the-router-module-directly).)

#### Using `PlayModule`

In order to use the `PlayModule` for your application, you need to provide the scala, Play and 
Twirl versions. You also need to define your own test object which extends the provided 
`PlayTests` trait. 

```scala
// build.sc
import mill._
// You have to replace VERSION
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::mill-contrib-playlib:VERSION`,  mill.playlib._

object core extends PlayModule {
    //config
    override def scalaVersion= T{"2.12.8"}
    override def playVersion= T{"2.7.0"}
    override def twirlVersion= T{"1.4.0"}
    
    object test extends PlayTests
}  
``` 

Using the above definition, your build will be configured to use the default Play layout:
```text
.
├── build.sc
└── core
    ├── app
    │   ├── controllers
    │   └── views
    ├── conf
    │   └── application.conf
    │   └── routes
    │   └── ...    
    ├── logs
    ├── public
    │   ├── images
    │   ├── javascripts
    │   └── stylesheets
    └── test
        └── controllers
```

> The following compile dependencies will automatically be added to your build:

Reviewer: I think we should document the fact that we provide functions to add dependencies.
Maybe with an example.
Eg. if you want to add the `ws` module in your Play application:

```scala
def ivyDeps = super.ivyDeps() ++ Agg(ws())
```

Author: I have added a documentation section about this. I considered adding another one about overriding the static assets path but decided against it as it is definitely not something that's routinely done.

options](#twirl-configuration-options) are applicable. 

#### Additional play libraries

The following helpers are available to provide additional Play Framework dependencies: 
- `core()` - added by default ,
- `guice()` - added by default,
- `server()` - added by default,
- `logback()` - added by default,
- `evolutions()` - optional,
- `jdbc()` - optional,
- `filters()` - optional,
- `ws()` - optional,
- `caffeine()` - optional. 

If you want to add an optional library using the helper you can do so by overriding `ivyDeps` 
like in the following example build: 

```scala
// build.sc
import mill._
// You have to replace VERSION
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::mill-contrib-playlib:VERSION`,  mill.playlib._

object core extends PlayApiModule {
    //config
    override def scalaVersion= T{"2.12.8"}
    override def playVersion= T{"2.7.0"}   
    
    object test extends PlayTests
    
    override def ivyDeps = T{ super.ivyDeps() ++ Agg(ws(), filters()) }
}  
``` 

#### Commands equivalence

Mill commands are targets on a named build. For example if your build is called `core`:
- compile: `core.compile`

> - run: *NOT Implemented yet*. It can be approximated with `mill -w runBackground` but this 

Reviewer: The command should be:

```suggestion
- run: *NOT Implemented yet*. It can be approximated with `mill -w core.runBackground` but this 
```
